## Basics
### Paths
All path, directory and filename declarations used by AssetsToC are relativ paths relative to the current output or input directory. AssetsToC is meant to be a completely dynamic generation system and it doesn't like to be offended by absolute paths.

The only absolute paths can be specified when [running the `atoc` command](execution).
### Statements
A statement is a declaration for actually generating the C code out of the given asset file(s).
Their syntax will be covered [a bit later in this document](#single-statements).

All statements end with a semicolon or, for convenience of those ridiculous python developers, a line break.
### Comments
You can declare comment lines by using an `#` as the first readable symbol in a line:

	:::atoc
	# This is a comment
### Generation
All files are only processed when either the `.atoc` file or the corresponding asset files changed. Nevertheless you can force regenerating specific files by deleting the corresponding C files.

!!! tip
	You can also use folder names instead of filenames to process **all** files in all subdirectories.

	!!! warning
		**AssetsToC doesn't check the up-to-date state of all those files**, it only looks at change time of the given folder which e. g. on Windoes doesn't update when changing contained files. Therefore when using folder declaration all files are processed each time you run `atoc`. You can disable this behaviour by setting the config `#!atoc $ force-folder-rebuild: false`. 


## Single statements

	:::atoc
	input.png | variableName > out.hpp

!!! note
	As explained in the following paragraphs, all parts apart from the file input can be omitted. Their content will then be automatically generated by the criterias specified via the [configurations](Config).

	??? example "Example"
		Per default `#!atoc test.txt;` will be inpreted as `#!atoc test.txt | testTxt > testtxt.hpp;`.

### File input section
==This section is required in all statements.==

When beginning a line with a non-operator symbol, the parser automatically interpretes the following text as a asset filename to import.
### Variable name section
After a `|` an optional variable name can follow. When omitted it is atomatically generated using the current [configurations](config).
### File output section
After an output operator (`>`) an optional output filename can follow. When omitted it is automatically generated using the current [configurations](config).
### Example
`.atoc`:

	:::atoc
	nice_image.png | niiicce > dicer.h;
	text.txt;

The first line will output the content of `nice_image.png` in the file `dicer.h` with the variable names `niiicce` and `niiicce_size`.

The second line will per default generate a `testtxt.hpp` file with variable names based on `testTxt`.

## Bundle Statements
The input/variable name section and the output section can be replaced by so called *bundles*.
They are enclosed in curly braces `{}`.
### File input and variable bundles
You can use multiple input files with or without the corresponding variable names by wrapping them in curly braces and separated by semicolons or new lines. You may also not declare the variable names and let them auto-generate like in single statements.

!!! bug
	For now the last declaration in input bundles **must not end with a semicolon**.

??? example
		:::atoc
		{	first-file.txt | var1
			second-file.txt
		} > out.txt

### File output bundles
You may also define multiple output files. Wrap them with curly braces and seperate the different output files with semicolons. ==For now the first file is generated and copied to the other specified locations.==

??? example
		:::atoc
		test.txt > { first-out.h; second-out.h }

